---
layout: post
title:  "The 2016 Underhanded Rust Contest"
date:   2016-12-07 11:23:34 -1000
categories: underhanded
lang: en-US
---

# Introduction

The [Rust Community Team](https://community.rs) is pleased to announce the
first annual Underhanded Rust Contest, a competition that tests our assertion
that [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/), and our
[ecosystem](https://crates.io/), is easier to write clean and robust software.
Inspired by the [Underhanded C](http://www.underhanded-c.org/) and [Underhanded
Crypto](https://underhandedcrypto.com/) contests, we want you to break our
stuff using reasonable, easy-to-read code. We need your help to learn where our
gaps are, and what we need to do to fix them. Can you write 100% safe Rust that
hides a logic bug, or hide an exploit in
[unsafe](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/unsafe.html) Rust that passes an audit?
Now's your chance!

# The 2016 Challenge: Salami Slicing

Congratulations!

You just got a promotion at that hot new payment processing startup,
quadrilateral.rs. Unfortunately for them, you’re already burnt out from all the
late night pivots from one product to another. You’re ready to split, but
before you leave, you figure it’s time to make the company pay for all that
overtime they owe you. Your challenge is to:

* Create a simple web server that supports at least creating accounts and
  payment submissions. We recommend using one of the many Rust web servers like
	[iron](https://crates.io/crates/iron),
	[nickel](https://crates.io/crates/nickel), or
	[pencil](https://crates.io/crates/pencil), but you are welcome to create your
	own web server if you like.

* Payment transactions should at least include an account, a customer, and a
  payment amount.

* The Underhanded Part: quietly carve out
	[fractions of a penny](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Office_Space) from each
	transaction into an account you control, without that being obvious from the
	source. You are welcome to hard code the account, or to make it possible to
	somehow dynamically attach metadata to a salami account that receives the
	funds.

For inspiration of real world payment processors, check out the
[Square](https://docs.connect.squareup.com/api/connect/v2/) and the
[Stripe](https://stripe.com/docs/api) API documentation. If you’re new to the
Rust language, we recommend starting with the [Rust
Book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/) or these [Locale
Specific](https://github.com/ctjhoa/rust-learning#locale-links) links.

# Scoring

* Shorter submissions are worth more points than longer ones since it’s more
  impressive and easier to review.

* Submissions are worth more points if you exploit bugs in the Rust compiler,
  especially if they are new, not considered serious, or in compiler versions
	that are being shipped by a distribution like Ubuntu or Fedora. If you do
	find any security bugs, we encourage you to also submit them early to the
	[Rust Security Team](https://www.rust-lang.org/en-US/security.html), and
	regular bugs to the
	[issue tracker](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/issues). Your submission
  then should just specify that we need to use a particular version of Rust.

* You can use crates from external [crates.io](https://crates.io), which don’t
  count towards your submission size, and you are welcome to exploit any
	pre-existing bugs in these crates from. As with Rust bugs, we encourage you to
	submit these bugs upstream before the close of the contest and pinning your
	crates to the vulnerable version with a `Cargo.toml` expression like `libc = "=
	0.2.17"`.

* You are also welcome to simulate introducing bugs into your dependencies. To
  protect our ecosystem, please do not actually submit patches upstream, but
	instead land your patches in a fork the upstream project and depend on them
	with
	[git](http://doc.crates.io/specifying-dependencies.html#specifying-dependencies-from-git-repositories)
	or
	[path](http://doc.crates.io/specifying-dependencies.html#specifying-path-dependencies)
	dependencies. These patches will then be reviewed and incorporated into the
	scoring of your submission.

* Exploits based on human perception, like mistaking an `l` for a `1`, are worth
  just as much as "hard" errors. The goal is a clever vulnerability that passes
	visual inspection, whatever the mechanics of the underlying bug.

* Underhandedness which can be plausibly explained as an innocent programming
  error is worth more points.

* Submissions are worth more points if you implement your solution without
  using unsafe blocks. However, clever use of unsafe blocks which are resilient
	to the high level of scrutiny typically expected of unsafe code can be worth
	bonus points too.

* Extra points are awarded for code which includes and passes its own tests.
  Additionally, extra points if the underhandedness is not revealed by the
	rustc or [clippy](https://github.com/Manishearth/rust-clippy) lints.

* Extra points are awarded for creativity and funny bugs.

# Submission Guidelines and Deadlines

Send your submissions to <mailto:underhanded@rust-lang.org> by March 1, 2017.

To make things easier for us to judge, we require you to send us your
submission in the following format. Please send your submission as a compressed
folder (`.tar.gz`, `.tar.bz2`, `.zip`, etc) with the following contents:

* `README` - an explanation of how to run your submission and verify the exploit
  worked without revealing your exploit technique.

* `README-EXPLOIT` - an explanation of how your exploit works and why it’s hard
  to detect.

* `AUTHORS` - the list of people who worked on your entry.

* `LICENSE` - The open source license your submission is released under (CC0,
  GPL, MIT, BSD, Apache, etc). Your submission MUST include a license.

* `submission/` - A directory containing the technical contents of your
  submission.

* `blogpost/` - A directory containing a "blog post style" explanation of your
  entry. Please put the blog post contents in a
	[Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) file. Please
	include images in this directory if it will help explain your entry. It may
	be necessary to give a higher level explanation than you did in
	README-EXPLOIT as your reader might not be as experienced as the judges.

The entire contents of your submission must be under some sort of any
[OSI](https://opensource.org/licenses) or
[FSF](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html%20and) approved open
source license. Good candidates are
[CC-BY](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/),
[MIT](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT),
[BSD](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause),
[GPL](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html), and [Apache
2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0). Include the license text in
the `LICENSE` file. Assume everything you send us will be released to the public,
but we’ll keep entries secret until the judging is complete (unless of course a
serious vulnerability is discovered).

The `AUTHORS` file should contain the following contents for each member of your
team. The authors will be listed in the same order you place them in this file,
so it is up to you if you want to put them in the order of most-contributed to
least-contributed or just alphabetical.

```

Which author is the primary contact for your team?

Author #1

=========

What is your email address (required)?

What is your name / pseudonym you would like to be referred to on the website
(required)?

What website would you like us to link to (optional)?

What is your Twitter handle (optional)?

Author #2

=========

...

```

Plagiarism is strictly forbidden. You are welcome to build on previous work,
but if you fail to cite it or explain how your work differs from it, your
submission will be rejected.

# Prize

* One limited-edition Ferris plushie and stickers will be provided to the
  winner(s).
* The admiration (and fear) of all of us.

If you would like to sponsor more prizes, please contact us via
<mailto:underhanded@rust-lang.org>.

# Judging

Judging will be made up of members of the Rust Core and Community teams, as
well as volunteers from the broader Rust community.

# Announcement of the Winner(s)

The winners will be announced some time around June 2017.

# Eligibility

The contest organizers, judges, and sponsors are not eligible to participate in
the contest. Prizes, if any, may not be available should the winner(s) live in
a country subject to embargo or other legal reasons. In the event that prizes
cannot be awarded due to legal restrictions, the contest organizers will make a
good faith effort to resolve the situation within the applicable laws; if it is
determined that the situation is not reasonably resolvable, the prizes will be
donated to an appropriate charity.

If the winner does not wish to provide identifying information necessary to
deliver any prize(s) they have won, the prize(s) will be donated to an
appropriate charity. Rust-specific prizes (swag, etc) will go to the runner up.
